A business is an organization of material, human, financial, 
and information resources that are joined together for a specific 
purpose. Not all businesses are owned and organized in the same 
way. Within each industry there can be a variety of types of business
organization, each with their own legal structure. How a company 
is legally constituted will depend on its size and the laws of the 
country in which it is operating.
In unlimited liability companies the owners are personally 
and entirely liable for the debts of the company. This means they 
may lose their personal assets (e.g., their house or their car) if the 
company is in financial difficulties.
In a limited liability company (Ltd.) the owners are liable 
only for the amount of money they have invested in the business.
This type of company is often quite small, and includes many
family – run businesses.
Unlimited liability companies are subdivided into sole
traders (BrE)/ sole proprietorship (AmE) (a type of business 
organization owned and run by one person) and partnerships (BrE)/
general partnerships (AmE) (a firm run by two or more partners
who share the risks and profits). A lot of professional people like 
lawyers, accountants and so on, work in partnerships.
Limited liability companies are subdivided into private limited
companies (Ltd) (BrE)/limited liability companies (AmE) and public
limited companies (PLC) (BrE)/listed companies (AmE). A private
limited company/limited liability company is a company which has 
shareholders (people who own the wealth of a company) but which 
cannot offer its shares to the public. A public-limited company/ listed
company is a company whose shares can be bought and sold (publicly
traded) on the stock exchange. Its shareholders receive a share of 
the profits every year (paid as dividends). These are large companies, 
and are run by managers under the supervision of a Board.
A franchise is a type of company in which the business owner
allows other people (franchisees) to set up in business using the 
company’s brandname, products and reputation. This type of company
includes McDonald’s and the Body Shop.
Notes: A public limited company is privately owned. It is not run 
by the state.
